I've been telling people online in various ways, and in lectures,
我在网络上和讲座里都和人们说过

that they should start fixing up the world by cleaning up their room.
人们应该从整理房间开始来整理他们的生活

And I wanted to just elaborate on that a little bit before I get back to the lecture itself.
我想在我回到讲座主题前稍微多阐述一下这个观点

So as it becomes this weird internet meme you know.
这个观点现在还被人做成了奇怪的表情包

And it's a joke. And good, it's a joke.
当然，这只是个小玩笑，这点是好的

I'm really happy about the fact that, so much of this has got like the leaven of humor in it and it's really important.
我非常乐于见到从幽默感里酝酿出来的这些东西，因为这很重要

Because that's what stops things from degenerating into conflict is humor.
因为阻止事物向冲突恶化的正是幽默感

And let's say you want to sort out your room and beautify it, because the beauty is also important.
那我们假如你要整理你的房间，再美化一下它，因为美观也是非常重要的

And let's say that all you have is just a little room.
假如你所拥有的一切就只是这个小房间

Like, you're not rich. You're poor.
假如你并不富有，而是一贫如洗

And you don't have any power, that's another thing.
另一方面，假如你也没有任何权力

But you've got your damn room.
你有的就只是这陋室一间

And you've got this space right in front of you.
你有的就只是你面前的这一片空间

You know, that that's a part of the cosmos that you can come to grips with.
这在浩渺宇宙中，你可以真切地触碰到的那一部分

Then you might think, what's there in front of you? Right in front of you?
那你也许会想，这明摆在你面前的到底是什么？

And the answer to that is it depends on how open your eyes are. That's the proper answer.
正确的答案是，这取决于你的眼界有多宽阔

Because you could say ...
因为你可以这么说

William Blake* said this for example, and Aldous Huxley made comments that were very similar.
William Blake* 就这么说过，Aldous Huxley 也做过类似的叙述

@@
<i>To see a World in a Grain of Sand, And a Heaven in a Wild Flower.<i>  -- William Blake
<i>一沙一世界，一花一天堂。<i>（徐志摩 译）

That in a transcendent state, you can see infinity in the finite.
在超凡的状态下，你可以从有限中观察到无限

And you might say, well you can say, if you can see infinity in what you have within your grasp.
那么你就可以说，如果你可以在掌中的有限中观察到无限

If you look and you could say maybe that's the case with your room.
那么如果你仔细观察，那这对于你的房间来说也一样成立

So, you want to clean up your room.
所以你应该好好整理你的房间

Well, okay, how do you do that exactly?
那你具体应该怎么做呢？

Well, a room is a place to sleep.
房间是你睡觉的地方

And so if you set your room up properly,
如果你恰当地布置好你的房间

then you figure out how to sleep, and when you should sleep, and how you should sleep.
那你就会明白，你该如何睡觉，你该何时睡觉

And then, you figure out when you should wake up.
继而明白你该在何时醒来

And then, you figure out what clothes you should wear,
明白你该穿什么衣服

because they have to be arranged properly in your dresser.
因为你会在衣橱中恰当地收纳这些衣服

And then, you have to have some place to put your cloth on.
而你着装一定是为了某些场景的

And if you're gonna have some clothes, then you have to figure out what you're gonna wear those clothes to do.
如果你因此而着装，那你就会明白着装后的你会去做些什么

Right? And then that means you have to figure out what you're going to do.
对吧？而这就意味着，你会明白你究竟该做些什么

And then, your room has to serve that purpose.
这就是你的房间对你该有的意义

Because otherwise it isn't set up properly. And if it doesn't set up ... if it doesn't serve your purposes,
反之，如果你不去布置你的房间，那它就不会实现它应有的意义

you will be unhappy, and not happy in the room.
那你就会在你的房间里郁郁寡欢

Because the way that we perceive the world is as a place to move from point A to point B in.
因为在我们对世界的认知中，它是一个任由我们从 A 点移动到 B 点的地方

And then, if the place that we're in facilitates that movement then we're happy to be there.
如果这个地方让我们可以更便捷地进行这种移动，那我们便会更乐于其中

And if the place that we're in serves as an obstacle to that movement then we're unhappy to be there.
但如果这个地方反而阻挠我们的移动，那我们便会怏怏不乐

And, so, what it means to set up your room is that you have to have somewhere to go that's worthwhile,
所以，好好布置你的房间也意味着，有着值得你去做的事情

or you can't set up your room.
不然你也不需要去布置你的房间了

And then, your room has to be set up to facilitate that.
而你布置的房间正该促进这一点

And then, the next thing is, well, maybe you have to make it beautiful, but that's not easy, right?
那么下一步就是让你的房间变得更美观了，而这并不简单，对吧？

That means you have to have some taste.
这代表着你得有一点品味

And that doesn't mean you have to have money. It doesn't.
而不代表你一定得有钱，完全不是

Because you can be garish with money, and you can be tasteful with nothing.
因为有钱的你也许会流于俗丽，而贫穷的你却也可以志趣高雅

All you need is taste, and taste beats money when it comes to beautifying things, you know.
你所需的仅仅是品味而已，而在于美化事物上，品味远胜于金钱

I mean, not that money is trivial, because it's not, but taste is crucial.
我不是说金钱不足为道，因为确实有其意义，但关键还是在于品味

And people who are very artistically oriented can make beautiful things out of virtually nothing.
有艺术细胞的人们几乎不需要什么东西就可以创造出美妙的事物

And not only that.
还不只是这样

The literature suggests that if you're going to make beautiful things,
有文献表明，如果你想创造一些美妙的事物

putting real constraints on what you allow yourself to do facilitates creativity instead of interfering with it.
那在你能做的事情中施加限制，不仅不会拖你后退，反而会增加你的创造力

Because, let's say you have to make something out of nothing, right?
因为，假如说你得无中生有，好吧？

Which I suppose would be a godly act, right?
这可是盘古开天、女娲造人一般的创造，对吧？

If you have to make something out of nothing, you have to be creative in order to do that.
如果你必须得无中生有，那你必须得有创造力才能做得到

And, so, then, it is, to beautify your room means that you also have to develop your capacity to be creative.
那么，美化你的房间也意味着你需要发展你的创造能力

And, so, then you can make your room shine.
那便可使 “蓬荜生辉”

But then what will happen is that,
但是，接下来便会发生这么一类事儿

if your family isn't together they will interfere with that.
那就是你的家人并不和你统一阵线，而是加以阻挠

You'll interfere with that because you won't have the discipline to do it properly.
你也可能会阻挠自己，因为你并不一定足以自律。

But then when you start building this little microcosm of perfection with what you have at hand,
当你开始物尽其用地构建你的完美小宇宙时

then it'll evoke all the pathologies of everyone in your household.
这会引起你家中所有人的病态的心理

They'll wonder what the hell you're up to in there.
他们会疑惑你到底在搞什么鬼

And they won't necessarily be happy.
他们并不一定会为感到高兴

Because, if you're ... if they're in a lowly place, let's say, and so are you.
因为，如果你本和他们一样在一种低微的环境中

And you're trying to move out of that.
而你却在试图向上爬

Then, the higher you move out of that, the more the place they're in looks bad.
那么，你爬得越高，相比之下他们便显得更加无足轻重

And you might say, well, what they should do is celebrate your victory over chaos and evil.
也许你会说，你在与混乱邪恶的斗争中取得了胜利，他们应该为你庆祝

But that isn't what will happen.
但这不是并不会发生

What will happen instead is that they will attempt to pull you back down. They'll attempt to. 
而会发生的是，他们会试着拉你下水，让你回到之前的状态

And I mean, obviously, [not all families do that], but all families do that to some degree.
诚然，并不是所有的家庭都会做到这个程度，但是每个家庭都会多多少少地加以阻挠

And some families do almost nothing but that.
而且对于有些家庭来说，他们每天做的就是这种事

And so what that means is that, if you're going to organize your room,
这就意味着，如果你想要打理好你的房间

then you're going to have to confront the devils in your house.
那你就得正面刚你屋里的这些恶魔

And that's often a terrifying thing
而这一般都是很可怕的

because some of those devils have have lineages that go back many many many generations.
因为这些恶魔的存在可以追溯到许久以前（指 "见不得别人好" 的心态是人之本性）

And god only knows what you will have to struggle with in order to overcome that.
天知道你需要经历多少折磨才可以取得成效

And so, and then, and so, to sort yourself out and to fix up your room is a non-trivial matter, you know.
所以说，打理好你自己，整理好你的房间，是多么不平凡的一件事

And, you can do that, you'll learn by doing that.
如果你做到了，那你一定会在做的过程中有所收获

And then, maybe you'll learn enough by doing that, so that you can fix up your family a little bit.
如果这个过程中的收获足够多，那你就会更好地处理你的家庭关系

And then, having done that, you'll have enough character.
长此以往，你就会有更加健全的人格

So that when you try to operate in the world, at your job, or maybe in the broader social spheres,
那么当你行走于社会时，比如说工作或者广义上的社交

that you'll be a force for good instead of harm.
你就会是一股正面的力量，而不是负面的

Because you'll have learned some humility by noting just how difficult it was to put your damn room together.
因为当你意识到连打理好他娘个小房间都是那么困难的时候，你就会变得更加谦逊

Well, and yourself, for that matter.
或者说，打理好你自己也是一样的道理

And so, you'll proceed cautiously with your eyes open towards the good.
这样，你便会在前进的道路上审慎而目光如炬